[Music]
March 2018 the BBC's seven worlds one
planet team arrived in northern
Queensland their aim to film one of the
world's largest birds the cassowary
we are in the daintree rainforest in
North Queensland and it's one of the
oldest patches of rainforests in the
world growing to a height of one and a
half meters and equipped with enormous
dinosaur like clothes cassowaries have
been described as the planet's most
dangerous birds but these feathered
Giants are shy and prefer to stay hidden
in dense tropical rainforest there are
only around 2,000 left in Australia to
locate them the team set up a series of
camera traps but instead of cassowaries
they discover another animal that could
threaten the future of the entire forest
there's like eight pigs enough that when
was that we put up loads and camera
traps around the place and most of the
footage we got back were of feral pigs
pigs are not meant to be in this
rainforest they were brought to
Australia as farm animals by European
settlers in the 1700s they soon escaped
and now there are around 24 million
living feral across the continent
big damage we see it all over the place
they're trying to find some food but in
doing so they disrupt all the topsoil so
that if it rains heavily which it does
all the time all the soil washes away
and then the trees can't stand up so
they're basically causing havoc they
also eat all the food
ants can grow massive so it can really
be a threat to our kasseri especially
the Czech pigs are omnivores as well as
stripping the forests of the fruit the
cassowaries depend on they can eat their
eggs and even their chicks with such a
small population this new threat could
see the cassowary disappear forever from
Australia which would be disastrous for
this ancient rainforest the castle is
crucial for the Daintree rainforest to
survive their keystone species and this
fruit in particular relies on the
cassowary to germinate it goes through
Casarez gut and once it's done that it
is obviously food out and it is able to
grow in its own little pile of Caffery
fertilizer it's estimated that over a
hundred plant species here depend almost
entirely on the cassowary as their
method of seed dispersal
[Music]
they can eat fruits that are you know
this big they walk kilometers in a day
so they take them really far away and I
have really gentle digestive system so
if the cassowaries are at risk all the
other plants and animals that rely on
them are also in danger invasive species
are now the number one threat to
Australia's native wildlife they have
already contributed to the extinction of
more than a hundred indigenous species
of flora and fauna it's hard to predict
just how many feral pigs there are in
the Daintree but the camera traps
suggest their numbers are increasing at
this moment little is being done to
remove or prevent the spread of pigs so
unless action is taken soon Australia
may lose another of its iconic wildlife
species
[Music]
Pacific Coastal fish live and breed in
the most fragile of habitats coral reefs
but many reefs have been trampled on
smashed by boats and even dynamited in
the quest for fish and damaged reefs
support fewer fish this could be why the
fishermen are catching less in Fiji
biologists are working with fishermen to
bring the fish back by replanting the
reefs this is a coral nursery but with
wild corals already struggling where
have these coral seedlings come from the
coral gardeners monitor the reef looking
for corals that need a helping hand
despite all this real estate many corals
end up clustered together crowded out
they will eventually die so the
gardener's uproot them creating more
space for some and giving the uprooted
ones a fresh start
each coral head is broken down into a
dozen or more fingers and each of these
is tied onto a concrete disc as every
gardener knows vigorous growth requires
sunlight plenty of nutrients and the
right temperature so the coral gardeners
choose just the spot
[Music]
within six months the corals are
branching out
[Music]
they're spaced out onto adjacent tables
and a year or two after planting they're
ready for harvesting the coral heads are
broken down once more in the space of
two years a single finger of coral has
multiplied into 50 or more some of these
will be replanted on fresh disks while
others will be returned to the reef
if replicated coral gardening could help
restore reefs throughout the Pacific but
its biggest success may be in sowing the
seeds of conservation in the local
fishermen within days these cuttings
will have stuck themselves to the reef
while reefs that were replanted a year
ago are already starting to bloom
in a few more years this area should be
awash with fish
so there's hope for coastal fisheries on
which local people depend Kenya in
Africa the last two northern white
rhinos poised on the brink of extinction
but can science save them
[Music]
for the making of his BBC seven worlds
one planet series naturalist David
Attenborough travelled to the old
pajetta Conservancy to film with the
last two northern white rhinos once
widespread nogen and fat ooh and now all
that is left of this subspecies which
has been brutally hunted by poachers for
many decades
nearby is a memorial here gravestones
mark the deaths of some of the many
rhinos killed by poachers since 2004
that's particularly sad one max I think
I'm their message
when David made his first wildlife
documentary in the 1950s there were over
2,000 northern white rhinos in Africa
Sudan the last male northern white rhino
now only nagging and phatu survive and
to keep them safe from poachers they
must live out their days under constant
armed guard
unfortunately this rhinos are live at
threat of being poached for their horns
which has a market in the Middle East a
kilo can go with around 6500 US dollars
with no male survivors and both females
unable to carry a pregnancy many people
consider the northern white rhino to
already be extinct
you're watching their video looking at
extinction
we've just you know nothing much they
can do than just accept the fate that
you have allowed them to be in
[Music]
but a group of scientists believe this
need not be the final chapter in the
northern white rhinos story right now we
are here at Petra tech Conservancy
tomorrow is an one of a very important
phase of project which is going on for
more than five years using in vitro
fertilization techniques the scientists
will take eggs from the last two females
and attempt to fertilize them with
frozen sperm collected from two northern
white rhino males before their deaths
if embryos are successfully created they
could be transferred to a surrogate
mother of a difference of species
allowing a population of northern white
rhinos to be created even if the last
two females were no longer alive the
power of IVF is the multiplication
factor if we have embryos we can
multiply we can have 10 20 maybe 30
embryos a year and then place them in
southern white rhinos and then create a
new northern white rhino population in a
very very short time after years of
planning the procedure tomorrow will
determine the future of their subspecies
[Music]
yeah confidence that that we will change
the world tomorrow it's the day of the
procedure first the females are
separated the rhinos are then
tranquilized the team will have to work
fast before the anesthetic wears off
this procedure has never been done
before new technology and ultrasound
must be used to locate the ovaries
[Music]
after four long years of preparation the
eggs have finally been collected but
this is just the beginning
they must I left them from Kenya to the
laboratory in Italy where they will be
fertilized with the frozen sperm this
procedure must happen within hours so
the journey across continents needs to
go without errors one month later there
is good news the team was able to
harvest 10 eggs leading to the
development of two northern white rhino
embryos preparations for the right
surrogate mothers to carry these embryos
are now underway only time will tell but
there may yet be a future for the
northern white rhino I think the young
generation is much more aware what
biodiversity actually means we are
scientists think we we can have to
rewind some of this mistakes and gives
the responsibility to the young
generation
[Music]
back in the nursery Midlands baby is
fighting fit
she's now ready to go back to mum not as
straightforward as his singers min min
may not have had time to bond with her
baby and it will be covered in different
smells so there's a risk she might have
nothing to do with her daughter the team
hold the baby in front of MinMin
expecting her to come forward but she
shows little interest this is not a good
sign after all that she has gone through
there is a real possibility that MinMin
will now reject her baby
[Music]
the keepers move the baby closer the
youngster cries out desperately for mum
to pick her up
but she still ignores two helpless
babies
[Music]
the keeper stepping making women more
comfortable they try again
[Music]
then something clicks to everyone's
relief min mins maternal instincts
finally kick in and she gently accepts
the baby things are at last looking up
for the reunited family
[Music]
he needs to sedate the elephant so that
the snare can be safely removed guys we
are ready we go have the elephant this
is good I'm happy no the vets here Fred
worked alongside a spotter plane to
locate the injured boo
[Music]
he wants to dart it quickly to stop it
from suffering
[Music]
okay so uh the French managed to buy the
dark and the elephant's taken off
through the feast we're just gonna try
and locate it
[Music]
choppers on the ground
it's really shocking I mean to myself a
black
[Music]
on his side
the Bulls breathing is labored we have
to move fast to remove the snare
poachers have simply used winch cable
from a truck
[Music]
a snare like this is cheap to make it
could have called any of Weaver's
farmers wonderful Robert to me our
Father for profit the reason that this
animal has endured is unimaginable pain
is for this his tusks defies belief how
cruel people can be to deny how
senseless this whole thing is because so
much suffering but for an ornament
simply for an ornament he's treated with
a special clay they'll help heal the
wound what do you think Fred thank you
you think it'll survive ah I see the
guy's body condition is good he was
walking and also getting to another bad
level but he's still okay to survive you
see the bone is not involved okay I
believe in targets okay
so when the bone is in time the soft
tissue can easily really repair recover
and finally the wound is treated with an
antibiotic spray all that remains is to
wake him up
well my word hey fella okay move back
take it
[Music]